Improve intro workout in react (#1500)
enkidevs/curriculum: javascript/react/intro-react/one-way-data-binding.md

---
## Content

> **React** encourages **unidirectional data flow** by design, making it the canonical example of this approach nowadays. Along with two-way data binding, these approaches describe the way your application keeps the `view` in sync with the data `model`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**React** encourages **unidirectional data flow** by design. Along with two-way data binding, React describes the way your application keeps the `view` in sync with the data `model`.
```

Reviewer: We should remove temporal language such as "nowadays" that makes the content more prone to becoming stale.

Reviewer: Also, React encourages oneway-data binding, not two.

A child component in React cannot modify data of the parent directly (unless the parent gives it a function to do so somehow).

See [Data down, actions up](https://www.google.com/search?q=Data+down%2C+actions+up&oq=Data+down%2C+actions+up&aqs=chrome..69i57j0l5.130j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8)

> In two-way data binding, the `model` is dynamically bound to the `view` such that one can change the other and vice-versa.

Reviewer: Since React only has one-way data binding, maybe add two-way data binding info as a footnote?

Author: Changed paragraphs to:

**React** encourages **unidirectional data flow** by design and lets you describe the way your application keeps the `view` in sync with the data `model` using an HTML-like language called JSX. This process is called **one-way data binding**[1].

In **one-way data binding**, the `model` is the *single source of truth*. Instead of changing the `model` directly when a **UI field** changes, the `model` is notified by the intended change and updates the *state* itself. Afterwards, the `view` is updated to match the change.

[1: Two-way data binding]
Although React uses one-way data binding, there is also two-way data binding. By this we mean that the `model` is dynamically bound to the `view` such that one can change the other and vice-versa:
- when you update a property in the model, the UI is also updated
- when you update the UI, the data model is also changed

In **one-way data binding** the `model` is the *single source of truth*.

Instead of changing the `model` directly when a **UI field** changes, the `model` is notified by the intended change and updates the *state* itself. Afterwards, the `view` is updated to match the change.

This technique is often seen as *cleaner* and it's preferred because it gives better control over the **data flow**.

> Note that you can still implement two-way data binding in **React**, but this requires some extra effort.

Reviewer: I can't think of a possible way of doing this, although I'm not denying there might be some, either way this sentence isn't particularly useful and should be removed.
